---
title: From License Zero to strictEq
summary: TODO
author: kemitchell
email: kyle@artlessdevices.com
---

In the middle of August, 2020, I announced License Zero would shut down in favor of a new, evolved service.  That new service, strictEq, has launched at [strictEq.com](https://strictEq.com).

Why the change?  First, to evolve the design of the service.  Second, to develop a new and different brand and presentation.  A few quick notes there.

I spent a lot of time earlier this year pruning License Zero down.  I lopped off the idea of users mostly finding and buying licenses through a command-line tool.  I dropped support for paid relicensing.  And so on.  The result was a smaller, simpler service that was easier to figure out, document, and explain.

If one theme sounded through, it was shedding complications meant to keep the buy-side experience quick and easy no matter how many dependencies a project might have.  Early on, showing that was possible came out early in many conversations.  Developers wanted an approach that could cope with the breadth and depth of npm-managed and later Cargo-managed dependency graphs.  Designs that couldn't help prolific authors of transitive dependencies seemed like just more of the same pressure to raise money and start a company, or take a job from someone who had.  Most folks thinking about the funding problem were still thinking about it systemically, from the top down, as designers.

But having made the point on "scalability", in code and in print, reality set in.  License Zero could scale, but there was no scale.  Reaching critical mass couldn't happen without showing the system could take it, but showing it could didn't automatically bestow critical mass.  The result was confidence, but also a mound of features solving problems the system didn't have, only could someday.  Helping new people understand those design choices worked more like proselytizing a faith than teaching a trade.  "This is how things will work, when they work better."  Not "This is how things are working better for us now."

Having rolled a lot of those complications back, I found myself with a simpler License Zero and a lot of complexity in the budget.  Lots of folks brought ideas on how to spend it.  License Zero should become a full-service agency, taking over money-management and marketing duties for developers.  License Zero should become a general license marketplace for all kinds of projects.  License Zero should integrate with Patreon, or GitHub Sponsors, or OpenCollective, or all of them.  License Zero should become the first instance of a general protocol for mixed free and paid licensing.

The project has to keep focus where it belonged all along.  Catalyze a change toward a wiser, fairer, more realistic kind of relationship between software people.
